+++
title = "Resume"
author = ["elliott williams"]
date = 2023-04-01T14:17:00-04:00
draft = false
+++

## Experience {#experience}


### LikeNow {#likenow}


#### Founder, Designer, 2022-Present {#founder-designer-2022-present}

[Likenow](20240403T152138--designing-an-app-with-friends__project) is a mobile app aimed at bringing economic justice back to
on-demand (Uber, Doordash, etc) gig workers, while also enabling many
people who are not qualified for any other on-demand apps. The model is
simple, allow anyone to join the platform offering whatever skills they
possess, while building an application much like Uber that connects
those workers with customers in real-time, all for free for the workers.

_Founder_. Moved from [back of napkin idea](20240403T152138--designing-an-app-with-friends__project) all the way to production. Secured Seed
Funding as well as hired the first full time employees for the product.

_Designer._ Developed the app from conception to iOS App Store (currently pending
approval). Performed extensive field research participating in the
on-demand app ecosystem as a worker, moved from research to wireframes
to pixel-perfect mockups as the only full-time designer.


### Capital One {#capital-one}


#### Senior Design Manager of Strategy - 2021 {#senior-design-manager-of-strategy-2021}

Joined Capital One's Wealth Management Group pre-launch. Managed all
design aspects of the Direct to Consumer service launch while
introducing [Service Blueprints](20240403T144759--service-blueprinting-for-alignment__project) to the group as a way of unifying the
efforts of designers, developers, wealth management associates and
regulators.

In addition to bringing together stakeholders across the group around a
single document my team owned, I was responsible for managing a
cross-functional team tasked with designing the cultural shift for the
group as Wealth Managers moved from a 1:1 service model to a team based
model.


### PNC Bank - Numo {#pnc-bank-numo}


#### Head of Design, 2018-2020 {#head-of-design-2018-2020}

Numo is a bank funded fintech incubator. Grew the group's first design
department while simultaneously developing financial product ideas and
the process to evaluate them. Quarterly meeting with C-Suite of PNC (6th
largest bank nationally) for funding approval for products.

_Founding Director of Numo's Corporate Startup Lab @ CMU_:
Strategically invested 1MM in PNC donations annually to research with
the potential to shape the future of the financial industry. Met with
C-Suite members of PNC quarterly for feedback and guidance. Acted as
primary client for entrepreneurial classes around CMU, evaluating
student created startups.

_Venture Process_:
[Designed and iterated the internal process](20240403T151735--designing-a-culture-of-innovation__project) used to evaluate 100s of
product concepts moving from back of napkin ideas to multi-million
dollar board approvals.

_Design Thinking Workshop_:
Designed Rhetoric based curriculum as a means to create a communal
language and understanding for design company-wide.

_Launched News for Sales Team Application_:
Moved from contextual inquires and semi-structured user interviews to
managing a small engineering team and testing prototypes in the field.
Cleared all regulatory hurdles to launch internally within PNC for the
healthcare vertical.

_SBA-backed Loan Marketplace for Consumers_:
Worked with industry experts, PNC Financial Institutions Group and Underwriting teams to [develop a product](20240407T140231--offset-capital-markets__project) to offer whole loans to consumers. Orchestrated dozens of stakeholders across multiple internal LOBs for PNC CCO, CIO, and CTO approval.


### Carnegie Mellon {#carnegie-mellon}


#### Adjunct Instructor PGA PA USA, 2019 - 2020 {#adjunct-instructor-pga-pa-usa-2019-2020}

Human Computer Interaction Master's Program Simultaneously instructed
several student groups working across multiple industries with paying
clients while guiding them through UCD research and design processes
such as Contextual Inquiry, Cognitive Walkthrough, Ideation, and Rapid
Prototyping.


### LegalSifter {#legalsifter}


#### Founder, CEO, Designer PGH PA USA, 2013 - 2017 {#founder-ceo-designer-pgh-pa-usa-2013-2017}

Founded LegalSifter to tackle the problems of small businesses' inability to [access affordable legal](https://techcrunch.com/2014/08/07/legalsifter-helps-designers-and-developers-read-their-contracts/) help. Raised $2 Million in venture funding to use a statistical natural language processing (AI) approach to legal aid.

_Founder_:
Launched an MVP that received over 4,000 contractsanically on day one. Posted on Hacker News with a 25% sign-up rate for the first day on
the front page.

_CEO_:
Raised over 2MM in institutional investments (to date LS has raised over 6MM). Effectively grew the company from 1 to 15 employees. I successfully pivoted the company from consumer to B2B and secured our first enterprise client, BNYMellon.

_Designer_:
Semi-structured interviews with 50+ potential users, longitudinal studies, and contextual inquiries guided the prototyping of the first interface. Prototyped a complex app that negotiated the complexity of AI generated imperfect data with novice users. Worked with engineering team to implement designs.


### Catapult PGH {#catapult-pgh}


#### _Founder, Service Designer PGH PA USA, 2010 - 2016_ {#founder-service-designer-pgh-pa-usa-2010-2016}

[Started](20240403T110721--starting-a-coworking-space-doesnt-have-to-be-hard__project) the first coworking space in Pittsburgh. Received grants, sited in
Ph.D. thesis' as the first donation based coworking space. Under my
management, Catapult grew to nearly 100 members, and a 25% operating
margin.


### Pink Design {#pink-design}


#### _Founder, Service Designer PGH PA USA, 2008 - 2010_ {#founder-service-designer-pgh-pa-usa-2008-2010}

[Cofounded](20240403T150500--designing-a-design-firm__project) one of the first Service Design consultancies in the country.
Worked with large corporate clients such as GSK and McDonald's and
applied modern Service Design methodologies such as Service Blueprints,
Personas, and Story-boarding.

---


## Education {#education}


### **Carnegie Mellon** {#carnegie-mellon}


#### _MS Human Computer Interaction 2007-2008_ {#ms-human-computer-interaction-2007-2008}

Carried 75% over required course load for the duration of the program
finishing with a 4.0 GPA. Lead Designer for Capstone project.


### **MIT** {#mit}


#### _BS Brain and Cognitive Science 2000-2004_ {#bs-brain-and-cognitive-science-2000-2004}

Additional studies in computer science, fine arts, and architecture.
Student Leader managing 50+ students for a semester long art
installation in the main entry. Executive Board Member of the Black
Student Union. Organized dorm student cooking group of 30 students.
Computer Science internship with Texas Instruments. Taught high school
computer science.

---


## Service &amp; Fun {#service-and-fun}


### **Sprout Fund** {#sprout-fund}


#### Decision Committee Member 2010-2015 {#decision-committee-member-2010-2015}

Worked with a team to determine community projects to be funded.
Evaluated projects based on probability of success along with alignment
with Sprout vision and values. Distributed ~1MM over my tenure.


### **Coffee Disloyalty Card** {#coffee-disloyalty-card}


#### Designer 2013 {#designer-2013}

Organized 8 warring coffee shops to increase positivity in the local
coffee industry. Created a physical rewards card where customers
received a free cup of coffee for visiting multiple non-affiliated
coffee shops.


### **Philadelphia Public Schools** {#philadelphia-public-schools}


#### Teacher 2006 {#teacher-2006}

Taught high school Chemistry, Biology, and Health to over 200 students
from 9th to 12th grade. Worked in various schools from arts focused to
the Microsoft School of the Future to a school associated with large
numbers of homicide and drug related crimes. Pursued Masters in
Education at the University of Pennsylvania concurrently.


### **Peace Corps** {#peace-corps}


#### Cape Verde, 2005 {#cape-verde-2005}

Immersive language training in Cape Verdian Creole and Portuguese.
Taught basic computer skills to people of Cape Verde.

---


## Talks {#talks}


#### CMU HCI 2019 {#cmu-hci-2019}

Service Design graduate class guest lecture on coworking from the lens
of design.


#### IXDA Pittsburgh 2018 {#ixda-pittsburgh-2018}

How business and design have shifted and changed to accommodate the
cultural shifts of the last 100 years.


#### World IA Day Pittsburgh 2018 {#world-ia-day-pittsburgh-2018}

Designing for imperfect computer generated data.
[video](https://slideslive.com/38905982/machinelearninggenerated-data)
